Welcome to Moving, Rotating, and Resizing!
In this video we're going to show you how to control your model with more
precision. We'll go over Blender's coordinate system.
And just a reminder for those who know and for those new-
comers to the 3D world, coordinates are always listed in the
order (X, Y, Z).
Always in that order, so if you ever see a series of numbers with commas in between them
like that, we're talking about the X coordinate, the
Y coordinate, and the Z coordinate. Let's hop over
into Blender.
So here we are in Blender with our wedge
and I'm now in Object Mode as well.
The first thing I'd just like to do is draw your
attention to our 3D Manipulator Widget, with
it's orange blob in the middle. Now that orange blob is
called the Origin. Now, at some point, during the construction
of my wedge the Origin has ended up outside of our model,
and that, in this case, I don't want that to happen.
So I want you to go over to your Tool Shelf, if that has happened to you,
where it says Set Origin under the Tools Options
I'd like you to change that and set the Geometry
to the Origin or the Origin to Geometry. One move is the object, one
move is the Origin, but essentially you'll end
up with your Origin back in the middle. Right,
so I'd like you to put away your Tool Shelf, for the moment,
and bring open your Properties.
Now, I'm just going to scroll up here, so we can see our Transform options.
Incidentally, if you're not seeing that you may
still be in Edit Mode. If you're in Edit Mode, it
gives you a different set of options. In this case, you want to be
in Object Mode. So we've got Location,
Rotation, and Scale. Ideal, that's exactly what we want to play with!
Now the location is the location of that little orange blob there,
so if we set it to 0, 0, and 0,
surprise surprise the wedge itself or
the orange blob, the bang of the middle, sits where X, Y, and
Z all equal 0. And you can tell which way it
is positive and which way is negative, simply by the direction of
that arrow. So if for some reason you had your model upside-
down, like this, you could still see which way was positive and which
way was negative. I'm just going to flip the model back over. Wow,
not feeling too dizzy there! So with this we can control
our model precisely, so we can say I want the Origin
to be at X is 1. And we can see it's moved it along by 1,
and Y equals 4 and it will shift it towards us
that way by 4. Now the Rotation
is very similar, we've got X, Y, and Z rotation.
The Z rotation would be, if you imagine, a skewer
going through our object where that blue arrow is. If
we play with the Z, you can see it spins around
as if someone had literally poked a skewer through the Z axis.
Now finally, we've got our Scaling options
here, so we can scale things individually. Now
the great thing about this is, it scales the actual model itself.
So it's not relative to these X, Y, and
Z's anymore, so it remembers how we created
the model in the first place. So if we scale it on the X axis,
it will actually get narrower and wider.
If we scale it on Z, it will get taller and narrower,
and of course, we can actually input the values
we want in here, so it's precise. And if you need to set it to a
certain dimension, you can do so. Here we can say X
equals to 1, so that would make the width of that,
in this case, 1 Blender unit. I could set the Y,
that is the length, to 4. So now that is a 1 in 4
wedge, and finally the Z, I could set that to 1 again
and we end up with a much more sensible sized wedge.
Now that is still a pretty big wedge being a meter tall but there we go,
and that changes the scale
accordingly. So if we change this to
2, we'll see that the scale as also changed from our original
model, but the dimensions have allowed us to make the wedge
in exact scale on the X, Y, and Z
axes. I feel a challenge coming on!
What I'd like you to do is grab your wedge and
move it to an exact location. So I'd like you to rotate
the wedge, so the pointy end is facing up. Make
it half the size it was before, and make sure the Origin
is placed at (0, 4,
2). So pause the video now and go try
doing that! OK
welcome back! Let's hop straight back over to Blender and do our
challenge!
I will want, if I imagine a
skewer going through my model... In fact, I'm going to just
set it so that the Rotation is 0 on Z as well, so we
can imagine things a bit better. So I want to move that so the pointy end is facing
up. So I'm imagining a skewer going through it, it would go through
the X axis. So I need to go to X and I want to
rotate it 90 degrees, and there we go, our
pointy end is facing up. Now we wanted the
location to be (0, 4, 2). So here
we can go 0. We've already got it set to 4, fortunately,
and here we can have it set to 2.
There we go, it's set at the right location! And finally the Scale!
So back to our original Scale, this would be
0.5 to make it half the size, 0.5 here, and
again 0.5 there. So now our wedge is
set at the right coordinates. Let's just check! (0,
4, 2). Yep, it's half the size it was before in
all dimensions, yep! And finally,
Rotating the wedge so the pointy end is facing up!
There we go excellent! So that's exactly positioned where
we wanted it! How did you guys get on? I'd like you to post your
results in the discussion against this lecture, and I'll see you in
the next one! Take care!